# What is Maven?

Maven is a build automation tool used primarily for Java projects. Maven can also be used to build and manage projects written in C#, Ruby, Scala, and other languages. The Maven project is hosted by the Apache Software Foundation, where it was formerly part of the Jakarta Project.

Maven addresses two aspects of building software: first, it describes how software is built, and second, it describes its dependencies.

Also, **it can be used as a version control system**.

In theory, our code repository should be **ide-independent**. This is provided by Maven.

`src/main/java` is the directory for source codes.
`src/test/java` is the directory for test codes.

## What is `pom.xml`?

A Project Object Model or POM is the fundamental unit of work in Maven. It is an `XML` file that contains information about the project and configuration details used by Maven to build the project. It contains default values for most projects. Examples for this is the build directory, which is target; the source directory, which is src/main/java; the test source directory, which is src/test/java; and so on. When executing a task or goal, Maven looks for the POM in the current directory. It reads the POM, gets the needed configuration information, then executes the goal.

## How to install Maven?

first of all, you should have java installed on your computer.

1. Download Maven from [here](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi).
2. Extract the archive to your desired location.
3. Add the `bin` directory of the created directory apache-maven-3.6.3 to the `PATH` environment variable.
4. Confirm with `mvn -v` in a new shell. The result should look similar to this:

these steps are not enough for you, you can look at [here](https://www.baeldung.com/install-maven-on-windows-linux-mac).

```bash
$ mvn -v
Apache Maven 3.6.3 (cecedd343002696d0abb50b32b541b8a6ba2883f)
Maven home: /opt/apache-maven-3.6.3
Java version: 1.8.0_131, vendor: Oracle Corporation, runtime: /Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_131.jdk/Contents/Home/jre
Default locale: en_US, platform encoding: UTF-8
OS name: "mac os x", version: "10.12.6", arch: "x86_64", family: "mac"
```
something like this should be printed on your terminal.

## How to create a Maven project?

```bash
$ mvn archetype:generate -D\
    groupId=org.hayrullah -D\
    artifactId=hello-world -D\
    archetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-quickstart -D\
    interactiveMode=false
```

## How to run a Maven project?

```bash
$ mvn compile
$ mvn package
$ mvn install
$ mvn test
$ mvn clean
```

## How to create a Maven project with IntelliJ IDEA?

1. Open IntelliJ IDEA.
2. Click `Create New Project`.
3. Select `Maven` from the left panel.
4. Select `Create from archetype`.
5. Select `org.apache.maven.archetypes:maven-archetype-quickstart`.
6. Click `Next`.
7. Enter `Group Id` and `Artifact Id`.
8. Click `Next`.
9. Click `Finish`.
10. Click `File` -> `Project Structure`.
11. Select `Project Settings` -> `Project`.
12. Select `Project SDK`.
13. Click `OK`.
14. Click `File` -> `Project Structure`.
15. Select `Project Settings` -> `Modules`.
16. Select `Sources` tab.
17. Select `Language Level`.

## Project Object Model (POM) explained

The POM is huge, but most of the time you only need to deal with a small portion of it. The following is a list of the most common elements that go in a POM:

- `project`: This is the top-level element in all Maven pom.xml files. It contains subelements such as modelVersion, groupId, artifactId, and version.
- `modelVersion`: This element indicates what version of the object model this POM is using. The version of the model itself changes very infrequently but it is mandatory in order to ensure stability of use if and when the Maven developers deem it necessary to change the model.
- `groupId`: This element indicates the unique identifier of the organization or group that created the project. This is generally the reversed domain name of the organization.
- `artifactId`: This element indicates the unique base name of the primary artifact being generated by this project. The primary artifact for a project is typically a JAR file. Secondary artifacts like source bundles also use the artifactId as part of their final name. A typical artifact produced by Maven would have the form `<artifactId>-<version>.<extension>` (for example, myapp-1.0.jar).
- `version`: This element indicates the version of the artifact generated by the project. Maven goes a long way to help you with version management and you will often see the SNAPSHOT designator in a version string. This indicates that a project is in a state of development and is not yet ready for release. For example, if your project is at version 1.0, you might have a development version of 1.1-SNAPSHOT, which indicates that you have not yet released version 1.1 but you are working on it and version 1.1 will probably be released with that exact version number.
- `packaging`: This element indicates the package type to be used by this artifact (e.g., JAR, WAR, EAR, etc.). The default value is JAR.
- `name`: This element indicates the display name used for the project. This is often used in Maven’s generated documentation.
- 

